# Connect To an NFS Share

## Debian Based Distros:
First always update your system before you install packages.  This will make sure you do not have conflicts with your operating system.  I will be using nano in this guide but any text edditor will work.


### Packages to Install:
`nfs-common`
`nano`


### Commands:
`sudo apt install nfs-common`
`nano #fileName#`

### Files To Edit:
`/etc/fstab`

In the fstab file you want to add a line at the very bottom of the file and add the following.
* ServerIP:/shared/file  `tab`  location/on/your/system  `tab`    share protocol   `tab`   this is the the settings on the connection
* 10.1.1.222:/mnt/share /mnt/share  nfs auto,nofail,noatime,nolock,intr,tcp,actimeo=1800 0 0
Let's break down each part of the line:
1. `10.1.1.222:/mnt/share`: This is the network address or hostname of the NFS (Network File System) server and the shared directory that you want to mount. In this case, the server is located at IP address `10.1.1.222`, and the shared directory is `/mnt/share`.
2. `/mnt/share`: This is the local mount point on your system where the shared directory will be mounted. Any files and directories within the shared directory will be accessible under this mount point.
3. `nfs`: This specifies the file system type, indicating that the shared directory is an NFS mount.
4. `auto`: This option tells the system to automatically mount the file system at boot time or when the `mount -a` command is executed.
5. `nofail`: This option ensures that if the NFS server is not available during boot, the system will not halt and will continue the boot process. Instead, it will mark the mount as optional.
6. `noatime`: This option disables updating access times on files, which can improve performance by reducing disk writes.
7. `nolock`: This option disables the use of file locking, which can be useful when there are issues with the lock manager on the NFS server.
8. `intr`: This option allows NFS operations to be interrupted if the server becomes unresponsive, which can help prevent the system from hanging in case of server issues.
9. `tcp`: This option specifies that the NFS client should use the TCP (Transmission Control Protocol) protocol for communication with the NFS server.
10. `actimeo=1800`: This option sets the attribute cache timeout to 1800 seconds (30 minutes). It controls how long the client will cache file attributes before checking with the server for updates.
11. `0 0`: These two numbers represent the dump and filesystem check order. The first value, `0`, indicates that the file system should not be included in the dump backup. The second value, also `0`, indicates that the file system should not be checked by the `fsck` utility at system startup.




## Arch Based Distros:

