Goal:
Add a user to the sudo users group to allow users to use the `sudo` command.


Commands:
* `su` #Password: (enter here the password of the root user that you specified during your Debian installation, and press Enter)
* `sudo` #using this to check if sudo is installed.
  * `apt install sudo`  #installs sudo (only needed if you do not have sudo installed)
* `adduser jhon-smith sudo` #'jhon-smith' is the example username used
* `groups` #prints to screen what the current users groups are
* `whoami` #prints to screen who the current user is



Guide:
1. If your root user does not have a password, then you will need to type the command `su` in the terminal. (This command does not reset a password, but in the instance your root user does not have a password, you can now create a root password).  This will allow you to type the root password you wish to use.  If your root user already has a password, there is no need to reset your root password.
2. Check to see if you have sudo installed with the command `sudo` and hit enter.  If something similar to "sudo command not found" is returned, then we need to install sudo.  If you see anything else, then skip this step. To install sudo, type the following commands into your terminal
    1. `su` #sets user to superuser (root)
    2. `apt update & apt upgrade -y` #updates your system and installs updates (I recommend restarting after this, if updates are installed, just to be safe)
    3. `apt install sudo -y` #downloads sudo and auto-installs sudo (-y)
3. Now you need to add your user to the sudo-ers files to be able to use sudo
    1. `adduser yourNameHere sudo` #replace yourNameHere with your username. If you do not know what your username is, in the terminal type `whoami`
        1. You may need to run the command as `su`
4. You now have sudo installed.  Restart your computer and you are good to go!
    1. You can verify that you are in the sudo group by typing `groups` into the terminal after you reboot.




Sources:
1. https://wiki.debian.org/sudo/
