# Goals
Be able to run virt-manager and in virt-manager run a kvm based virtual machine.


# Debian Based Systems
`sudo apt install qemu-system libvirt-daemon-system virt-manager`
This will install:
* qemu-system #QEMU is a fast processor emulator: currently the package supports ARM, CRIS, i386, M68k (ColdFire), MicroBlaze, MIPS, PowerPC, SH4, SPARC and x86-64 emulation. By using dynamic translation it achieves reasonable speed while being easy to port on new host CPUs
* libvirt-daemon-system #Libvirt is a C toolkit to interact with the virtualization capabilities of recent versions of Linux (and other OSes). The library aims at providing a long term stable C API for different virtualization mechanisms. It currently supports QEMU, KVM, XEN, OpenVZ, LXC, and VirtualBox.
* virt-manager #The virt-manager application is a desktop user interface for managing virtual machines through libvirt. It primarily targets KVM VMs, but also manages Xen and LXC (Linux containers). It presents a summary view of running domains, their live performance & resource utilization statistics. Wizards enable the creation of new domains, and configuration & adjustment of a domain's resource allocation & virtual hardware. An embedded VNC and SPICE client viewer presents a full graphical console to the guest domain.


# Fedora
`yum install virt-manager`










# Sources
* https://wiki.debian.org/KVM#Introduction
* https://virt-manager.org/
* https://packages.debian.org/bullseye/qemu-system
* https://packages.debian.org/buster/libvirt-daemon-system#:~:text=Libvirt%20daemon%20configuration%20files,OpenVZ%2C%20LXC%2C%20and%20VirtualBox.
